# Sharing your make

This step is optional but highly recommended!

Most 3D models are available for free, and it's nice to say thanks! Model
creators learn from feedback by people like you who print their models. Sharing
a model you've printed is called sharing or posting a **make**.

!!! tip

    If you are not an adult, ask a parent or guardian for permission and to help
    you with these steps.

## Where to share

Usually there is a link on a 3D model page for sharing or posting a make.

There are several web sites where creators share 3D models. This guide used
[**Cali Cat** which was published on **Thingiverse**][calicat]. Thingiverse
includes a button labeled **Post a make** underneath a model's pictures.

![Post a make button on the Cali Cat model page on Thingiverse][thingiverse-make-button]{ .thumb }

## Sign up or log in

To post a make, you will need an account on the model web site (in this case,
Thingiverse). There is a **Sign Up** menu on the top right side of the page,
where you can create an account or log in.

!!! tip

    If you are not an adult, your parent or guardian will need to include their
    e-mail address in your account sign up information.

![Sign up menu and link on Thingiverse][thingiverse-signup-link]{ .thumb }

After you sign up or log in, you can [return to the model page][calicat] to
share your make.

## Take a picture

Take a picture of your newly 3D printed model! Since the picture will be shared
on the internet, don't include other things in the picture that you don't want
the world to see.

A picture that focuses on the printed model is best.

![Finished Cali Cat][photo-calicat-finished]{ .thumb }

## Compose your make

Click the **Post a make** button on the Cali Cat model page to open the make
form.

### Upload your picture

Either drag and drop the picture you took from your computer's file manager onto
the photo upload box, or click **My Computer** to select the file manually.

![Thingiverse picture upload link][thingiverse-make-upload-picture]{ .thumb }

After uploading your picture, it will appear as a thumbnail:

![Thingiverse picture uploaded][thingiverse-make-picture-uploaded]{ .thumb }

### Say thanks

In the **Description** box, enter a message and say thanks to the model creator.
Your message will be posted on the model page for everyone to see, so make it a
good one!

![Thingiverse make description][thingiverse-make-description]{ .thumb }

### Add make details

On Thingiverse, makes require a few details to be posted, such as the printer
brand and model. Thingiverse's web site is a little bit out of date and doesn't
have an entry for the Sovol SV06 Plus, so I like to select the Sovol SV06 which
is a similar printer:

![Thingiverse Sovol SV06 printer selection][thingiverse-make-printer-select]{ .thumb }

The other two required fields are **Rafts** and **Supports.** These are special
features in the slicer to help print more complicated models. Cali Cat didn't
need either of these, so select **No** for both **Rafts** and **Supports**.

![Thingiverse remaining make settings][thingiverse-make-settings]{ .thumb }

The remaining make settings fields are optional.

### Publish your make

Proofread your message and the print settings you chose to make sure everything
looks good.

When you are ready, click **Save & View** at the top of the page to publish your
make!

![Thingiverse make Save & View button][thingiverse-make-save]{ .thumb }

### Finished!

Your make is now published!

![Thingiverse published make][thingiverse-make-finished]{ .thumb }

Your make is also accessible from the **Makes** tab on the model page.

![Thingiverse published make on model page][thingiverse-make-in-list]{ .thumb }


[calicat]: https://www.thingiverse.com/thing:1545913
[photo-calicat-finished]: ../img/photo-calicat-finished.jpg
[thingiverse-make-button]: ../img/thingiverse-make-button.png
[thingiverse-make-description]: ../img/thingiverse-make-description.png
[thingiverse-make-finished]: ../img/thingiverse-make-finished.webp
[thingiverse-make-in-list]: ../img/thingiverse-make-in-list.png
[thingiverse-make-picture-uploaded]: ../img/thingiverse-make-picture-uploaded.png
[thingiverse-make-printer-select]: ../img/thingiverse-make-printer-select.webp
[thingiverse-make-save]: ../img/thingiverse-make-save.png
[thingiverse-make-settings]: ../img/thingiverse-make-settings.png
[thingiverse-make-upload-picture]: ../img/thingiverse-make-upload-picture.png
[thingiverse-signup-link]: ../img/thingiverse-signup-link.png
